RFC 7230

3.3.2. Content-Length

When a message does not have a Transfer-Encoding header field, a
Content-Length header field can provide the anticipated size, as a
decimal number of octets, for a potential payload body. For messages
that do include a payload body, the Content-Length field-value
provides the framing information necessary for determining where the
body (and message) ends. For messages that do not include a payload
body, the Content-Length indicates the size of the selected
representation (Section 3 of [RFC7231]).

    Content-Length = 1*DIGIT
    
An example is

    Content-Length: 3495
    
A sender MUST NOT send a Content-Length header field in any message
that contains a Transfer-Encoding header field.

A user agent SHOULD send a Content-Length in a request message when
no Transfer-Encoding is sent and the request method defines a meaning
for an enclosed payload body. For example, a Content-Length header
field is normally sent in a POST request even when the value is 0
(indicating an empty payload body). A user agent SHOULD NOT send a
Content-Length header field when the request message does not contain
a payload body and the method semantics do not anticipate such a
body.

A server MAY send a Content-Length header field in a response to a
HEAD request (Section 4.3.2 of [RFC7231]); a server MUST NOT send
Content-Length in such a response unless its field-value equals the
decimal number of octets that would have been sent in the payload
body of a response if the same request had used the GET method.

A server MAY send a Content-Length header field in a 304 (Not
Modified) response to a conditional GET request (Section 4.1 of
[RFC7232]); a server MUST NOT send Content-Length in such a response
unless its field-value equals the decimal number of octets that would
have been sent in the payload body of a 200 (OK) response to the same
request.

A server MUST NOT send a Content-Length header field in any response
with a status code of 1xx (Informational) or 204 (No Content). A
server MUST NOT send a Content-Length header field in any 2xx
(Successful) response to a CONNECT request (Section 4.3.6 of
[RFC7231]).

Aside from the cases defined above, in the absence of
Transfer-Encoding, an origin server SHOULD send a Content-Length
header field when the payload body size is known prior to sending the
complete header section. This will allow downstream recipients to
measure transfer progress, know when a received message is complete,
and potentially reuse the connection for additional requests.

Any Content-Length field value greater than or equal to zero is
valid. Since there is no predefined limit to the length of a
payload, a recipient MUST anticipate potentially large decimal
numerals and prevent parsing errors due to integer conversion
overflows (Section 9.3).

If a message is received that has multiple Content-Length header
fields with field-values consisting of the same decimal value, or a
single Content-Length header field with a field value containing a
list of identical decimal values (e.g., "Content-Length: 42, 42"),
indicating that duplicate Content-Length header fields have been
generated or combined by an upstream message processor, then the
recipient MUST either reject the message as invalid or replace the
duplicated field-values with a single valid Content-Length field
containing that decimal value prior to determining the message body
length or forwarding the message.

    Note: HTTP’s use of Content-Length for message framing differs
    significantly from the same field’s use in MIME, where it is an
    optional field used only within the "message/external-body"
    media-type.